information about l’ept :Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie or EPT is a Tunisian Engineering School. It was founded on June 26, 1991 by order of law N°91-42,and welcomed its first students in September 1994.The school is under the sole supervision of the University of Carthage and recruits from a pool of top ranking students from the national engineering school entrance exam. The majority of students belong to the Preparatory Institute for Scientific and Technical Studies.

Informations about Admission: EPT selects only fifty students each academic year from a pool of approximately 4000 students that passed the Tunisian engineering school entrance exam: 10 are selected from PT major, 30 are selected from MP major and 10 are selected from the PC major. 
Information about Adresse ou localisation: L'École Polytechnique de Tunisie is located in La Marsa near Sidi bou said and Sidi Dhrif. There is still Carthage, La Goulette and Gammarth.
Information about List of directeurs: Pr. Mohamed Jaoua 1994/Pr. Taieb Hadhri 1995/Pr. Jmail Ben Brahim 2001/Pr. Mohamed Abdelamef Ben Abderrabba 2004/Pr. Habib Maagli 2005/Pr. Mohamed Abaab 2008/Pr. Azgal Abichou 2011/Pr. Lilia El Amraoui 2018.
Information about Goals:The mission of the Polytechnic School of Tunisia is to meet the nation's needs for project design engineers,who are able to improve technical systems, monitor and control developments in advanced technologies and to ensure high-responsibility jobs of a scientific nature, economic and social, in the private and public sectors
Information about 4C center: Career and Certification Centerskills is a support structure for the guidance and employment of young polytechnicians. It is part of the 4C network of the Ministry of High Education and Scientific Research (MESRS). 4C EPT Team :Mrs Leila Dridi : Head of 4C EPT Mrs Ines Bousnina : Training and Career Manager Mrs Imen Kotti : Communication and Networking Manager .
Information about The objectives of the 4C are: Assist engineering students in establishing their personal and professional project; Facilitate lifelong learning and networking for EPT graduates; Ensure EPT employers and partner companies have better access to engineering students (presentations, internships, seminars, recruitment activities, interactions with faculty and administration with a view to improving the preparation of engineering students for the job market).
Information about Accreditation:The Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie (EPT) is strategically pursuing accreditation for its teaching programs, particularly with ABET, to maintain its leadership in engineering training nationally. ABET is chosen for its assurance of program review quality and its role in facilitating continuous improvement across all institutional factors, involving staff, faculty, and graduates. The initial step in this pursuit occurred on December 5, 2019, with a meeting involving Prof. Ramesh GAONKAR, Fulbright Specialist, to explore the feasibility of ABET for EPT. Subsequently, on January 17, 2021, the drafting of the Readiness Review Report commenced through a series of meetings, workshops, and open days with both local and international experts. EPT aims to submit its Readiness Review Report by October 1, 2021.
Information about Contact info:B.P. 743 - 2078 La Marsa Tunisia ;phone number:+216 71 774 611 ;lilia.elamraoui@ept.u-carthage.tn ; https://www.ept.tn;https://www.facebook.com/EcolePolytechniqueDeTunisie;https://www.facebook.com/groups/1499331564237624;https://www.facebook.com/groups/1396082220544060;https://www.facebook.com/groups/2398220816871056.
Information about coworking-space: The Coworking Space was designed and developed to be a working and sharing space between engineering students.It allows them to work as a team on projects and activities that generate value, but also to organize screenings, face-to-face or online conferences, to "brainstorm" and even to undertake in groups. 
Information about Dorm: Every student is provided with a single room in the dorm for 3 years.
Information about Library : The library of the École Polytechnique de Tunisie has a documentary collection of more than 13,000 documents. Library members have direct access to the document shelves. http://www.biruni.tn/v-en/local-catalog.php?ei=45 
Information about The “Association Scientifique de l’École Polyechnique de Tunisie: It was created in 2015 and all teaching and administrative staff as well as students can be members of the association. The objectives of the association are to:To help EPT shine in its socioeconomic, national and international environments.Provide material and moral support to current students, alumni and researchers of EFT in the scientific and cultural activities.Provide material and technical support to improve the conditions of learning and research at EPT.
Information about school restaurant:It provides for all engineering students 3 meals  each weekday. Concerning lunch and dinner, the restaurant offers a complete meal: Entrée, Main Course and Dessert. From 7 to 8 am: Breakfast, from 12.00 to 13.00: Lunch and from 18.30 to 19.30: Dinner.
Information about Economic environment : Internships in a company: end of the first year (worker internship), end of the second year (internship engineer) and end-of-studies project,Company visits,Study trip to Tunisia in the 1st year and abroad in the 2nd year, both for one week.
the composition of the ept: ept has a coworking-space ,dorm, library, restaurant, 4C center, six laboratories, parking and classroom .
information about E-TIC :The Doctorate in Electronics and Information and Communication Technologies (ETIC) focuses on training innovative researchers in next-generation systems. ETIC theses, developed in collaboration with industry partners, emphasize real-world applications and technological transfer. The program equips researchers to meet increasing R&D engineering needs, covering areas from lower layers to application levels, including on-board systems, networks, and middleware. Research themes include the design of secure and scalable systems with applications in big data and IoT, high-speed wireless digital transmission techniques, new circuit architectures for electronic systems, low-cost multimedia network design, and image processing using artificial intelligence, particularly deep learning techniques.
information about doctoral committees are attached to the Doctoral School:Applied Mechanics Doctoral Commission: in Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie EPT directed by Mr. Fehmi NAJAR ETIC Doctoral Commission: in Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie EPT directed by Mr Rabah ATTIA Applied Mathematics Doctoral commission: in The National Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology INSAT directed by Mr. Ali ABDENNADHER Electrical Engineering Doctoral commission: in Ecole Nationale d’Ingénieurs de Carthage ENICar directed by Mrs Afef ABDELKRIM.
Information about laboratories are attached to the Doctoral School:EI&TIC: Laboratory in ENICar directed by Mr. Kais OUNI;LASMAP: Laboratory in EPT directed by Mr. Fehmi NAJAR;SERCOM: Laboratory in EPT directed by Mr. Rabah ATTIA;LEGI: Laboratory in EPT directed by Mr. Mohamed Adel DHIF; LSA: Laboratory in EPT directed by Mr. Naceur BEN HADJ BRAIEK; LIM: Laboratory in EPT directed by Mr. Chaker JAMMAZI.
Information about Applied Mathematics :The Applied Mathematics PhD program is research-oriented, providing professional research experience and leading to the creation of new knowledge. The curriculum includes personal research by the doctoral student, supplemented by additional training approved by the doctoral school. The program emphasizes work with scientific, economic, social, technological, or cultural significance and concludes with the award of a national doctoral diploma, conferring the title and grade of doctor, issued by an accredited higher education institution.This PhD is prepared in the Mathematical Engineering Research Laboratory (LIM) whose research themes are:Mathematical and numerical modeling,Asymptotic analysis,Hydrodynamic instability,Control of complex systems and Stochastic processes and random walks.
Information about SysCoIn :The SyCoIn "Complex and Intelligent Systems" course aims to train skills with high added value in the field of numerical modeling, analysis, design, optimization and control of advanced systems relating to various sectors such as automated systems, autonomous vehicles, mechatronic systems, robotic cells, energy and multiphysics systems, etc. The SyCoIn course offers students two options: Automatic and Advanced ,Systems Multiphysics systems. 
Information about IoT and Data Analysis in ept:The Advanced Engineering Research Master of the Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie , IoT and data processing course aims to offer a training that is in tune and consistent with scientific teachings on technology 4.0, IoT, data science and the processing of massive data at the Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie  and the research work of the various laboratories within this school. This is a special training since it includes 3 components essential to any modern system, namely IoT, data processing, and artificial intelligence.
Information about The EcoFiQ: The EcoFiQ master provides learning in quantitative analysis applied to economics and it aims to train high-level executives in finance through teaching allowing them to acquire good mathematics, numerical SQL implementation, etc.). By training students in the main methods and tools of quantitative analysis, the master responds to the needs of expertise expressed by consulting and studies with the possibility of a career as an economist or financial engineer, trader, quantitative analyst, technical and economic advisor, project and mission manager, director and researcher, etc. The training also allows students to pursue doctoral studies. 
Information about Program objectives :The program educational objectives, are:PO1: To acquire highly qualified multidisciplinary training in the fields of science, technology and general culture.PO2: To lead complex projects in scientific, technical, economic and social fields.PO3: To train high profile design and project engineers able to follow and master technological advances.
Information about ABET Student Outcomes :SO1: Ability to identify, model and solve complex engineering problems by applying the principles of advanced engineering, science and mathematics.SO2: Ability to design systems and processes to produce solutions that meet specific needs with consideration of public health, safety and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental and economic factorsSO3: Ability to communicate effectively in writing and orally with a wide range of audiences, as well as the ability to identify and use appropriate technical documentation.SO4: Ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.SO5: Ability to function effectively as a member or leader of a technical team, as well as the willingness to assume leadership roles and responsibilities.SO6: Ability to develop and conduct appropriate experiments, analyze and interpret data and use technical judgment to draw conclusions.SO7: Ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.
Information about Diploma requirements :The engineering diploma of the École Polytechnique de Tunisie is awarded to third year polytechnic students meeting the following criteria: to pass all units and credits ,to be certified B2 level (CEFR) in at least two foreign languages,to pass the three internships (Entry Level internship, Engineering Internship),to have successfully completed and defended the Graduation Project.
Information about Industrial Partners :STEG /VIVO ENERGY/ KAUST/ CODINTEK /WIKI START-UP/ MATEEN CONSULTING/ Complexe de Jeunesse De la Marsa/ CAF /The BIAT Foundation For Youth/ The Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations/ UIB/BRITISH COUNCIL 
information about partnership between STEG and l’ept: The Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (STEG): In 2013, a two-party partnership agreement was signed, it concerns the funding of doctoral theses. Today the SERCOM laboratory has several doctoral students funded by STEG. 
information about partnership between VIVO ENERGY and l’ept: Vivo Energy: In 2014, a partnership and sponsorship agreement was signed between EPT and Vivo Energy. This agreement highlights the joint actions that will be undertaken by the two parties. 
information about partnership between KAUST and l’ept: King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST): Regular reception of EPT researchers, doctoral students and trainees but also reception of KAUST researchers at EPT.
information about partnership between CODINTEK and l’ept: CODINTEK: Founded by an alumnus of EPT, this company regularly recruits graduates and interns from EPT. In addition, a three-party partnership agreement was signed between Codinteck, EPT, and the National Agency for the Promotion of Scientific Research (ANPR). Today a doctoral thesis is taking place between EPT and Codinteck. 
information about partnership between WIKI START-UP and l’ept: Signature Date : June 05, 2021 ;Duration:1 year ;Acquis: Preimage de l’EPT Start Up Incubator.
information about partnership between MATEEN CONSULTING and l’ept: Signature Date : November 26, 2020 ;Duration:1 year ;Acquis: PFE internships  .
information about partnership Complexe de Jeunesse De la Marsa between and l’ept:Signature Date : November 04, 2019 ;Duration:1 year ;Acquis: Reservation of the omni sport field for EPT students every Wednesday afternoon .
information about partnership CAF between and l’ept: Conseil Audit Formation, membre du réseau International PwC (PwC Tunisie) Signature Date : September 2, 2019 ;Duration:1 year ;Acquis : Renovation of the amphitheater ,Free education,Supervision of internships and PFE and Welcoming students as part of the "business visit" module .
information about partnership The BIAT Foundation For Youth between and l’ept: Signature Date : September 2, 2019 ;Duration:1 year ;Acquis: Creation of a Spark club EPT and Free training for students.
 information about partnership between The Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations between and l’ept: Signature Date : May 23, 2019 ;Duration:2 years ;Acquis: - Reception of students as part of the "business visit" module and presentation of the status and mission of the fund and Supervision of internships .
information about partnership  between UIB and l’ept: Signature Date :  March 01, 2019 ;Duration :  2 years ; Acquis : - Sponsorship of events and Supervision of PFE.
 information about partnership  between BRITISH COUNCIL and l’ept: Signature Date : January 30, 2019 ;Duration:3 years;Acquis:Training and Certification Teachers and Students.
 Information about International Academic Partners : MINES ParisTech/ TELECOM Paris/university of Montreal .
Information about National Academic Partners : ENIT, SUP'COM, ENIM and ENIS .
Information about Institutional Partners :CARTHAGE UNIVERSITY and Ministry of Higher Education MES .

Information about Sports and cultural activities at the EPT:Great importance given to cultural and sporting activities,Land and equipment available: 6-a-side football pitch, basketball court, 2 tennis courts, gym fitness,Sports teachers supervise several sports activities: football, basketball, tennis, etc,Clubs: painting, music, ACM C’EPT, DataC’EPT, ROBOTC’EPT.
Information about acm c’ept :This is a club that is interested in competitive programming and solving algorithmic problems. It aims to improve the level of students in this field, to teach them the necessary problem-solving techniques and to prepare them for the various competitions, namely the TCPC.Lien related to acm c’ept: https://codeforces.com .
Information about Data c’ept: the DataC’EPT club was founded in the aim of guiding the students of École Polytechnique de Tunisie  to discover some of it’s different aspects ; Data Science, Machine Learning and Deep learning. The activities of the club consist of presenting webinars and training sessions combining both; theoretical foundation and practice through quizs, notebooks and competitions to help members advance comfortably in their journey. The aim of DataC’EPT is to lead students to mastery level on the Kaggle platform as well as winning national, continental and international competitions on Zindi just like what past members did. Such a journey through our club will ease the members’ path into professional life in the future.Lien related to data c’ept : https://www.kaggle.com https://zindi.africa .
Infomation about art club : Painting Club has been active since  October 2019, the teaching has been provided by the artist Mohamed KARRAY and the club has been supervised by Mrs Imen KOTTI. The Club gathers amateurs of painting whose lives have completely changed thanks to their involvement and committement to painting. A lot of engineering students have discovered their talents through this club, and for many, this activity has become a part of their lives. The Painting Club not only rhymes with art and pleasure, but also with friendship, conviviality, fulfillment, and beauty. Moreover, at the end of each academic year, the club organizes an exhibition of the artistic works of the students to be admired by the guests of the school.

Information about the structure of education: A common core: During the first three semesters of the course, students acquire the basics of several fundamental disciplines. A prominent place is also given to languages (the level of which is certified by the TOEIC or IELTS in English and by the DELF in French)and human sciences. One option: The last two semesters of the course are devoted to an option chosen by the student. The last four months are devoted to the end-of-studies project (PFE) The engineering diploma from the Ecole Polytechnique de Tunisie does not mention an option: it is the only diploma of versatile engineer in Tunisia.options: EGES , SISY and SysCo
 Information about EGES: Economics and Scientific ManagementProfessions :Financial Analyst, Portfolio Manager, Financial Engineer, Trader,Consulting, Audit, Organizational Management, Information System,Logistics,Economist Engineer,Data Scientist,Teaching and Research 
Information about SISY: Signals and Systems:Professions: Data scientist, IT engineer, telecom engineer, sound engineer, CEO,Management, automation engineer, Consulting, Modeling, Design and development,Robotics, image processing, quality engineer, R&D, IT security engineer 
Information about SysCo: Complex Systems (formerly: Mechanics and Structures (MEST)).Disciplines relating to mechanical engineering, civil engineering, energy engineering, materials,mechatronics, automation, artificial intelligence and embedded systems are addressed in a system approach where digital tools are favored and the aspect transversal is highlighted.
Information about Double Degree:In addition to its versatile and multidisciplinary training, unique of its kind in Tunisia, the School.Polytechnique de Tunisie offers its students the opportunity to obtain an international double degree engineer-engineer thanks to its highly renowned academic partners, namely the school “Mines Paris-Tech”, “Télécom Paris-Tech”.
Information about Postgraduate training: The School is authorized to deliver: Research Master: Advanced Engineering, course: Intelligent complex systems.Research Master: Advanced Engineering, course: IoT and data processing.Research Master: Economic and Financial Optimization, course: ECOFIQ Economy and Quantitative Finance.Doctorate in Applied Mathematics Doctorate in Applied Mechanics PhD in electronics and information technology and telecommunications.
Information about Research structures:The EPT has two doctoral schools:Doctorate in applied mathematics;Doctorate in applied mechanics. The EPT has six laboratories and research units: Laboratory of Economics and Industrial Management (LEGI); Mathematical Engineering Laboratory (LIM); Structure and Applied Mechanics Laboratory (LASMAP); Research Unit for Study and Automatic Process Control (LECAP); Operational Research Unit for Industry (ROI); Electronic systems design research unit (URCSE).
Information about modules of the first semester:Continuum Mechanics & Elasticity,Quantum and Statistical Physics,Engineering Math,Numerical Analysis ,Introduction to Operating Systems,C Prog. and System – Labwork ,Data Structures & Algorithms,Electronics ,Instrumentation & Metrology,French I,English for Culture & Career I,Company visits I,Seminars & Presentations I,Principles of Economics ,Microeconomics I and Business Management .
Information about modules of the seconde semester:Fluid Mechanics ,Solid State Physics,Finite elements method I,Macroecononmics I, Entrepreneurship and Innovation,Economic,Study trip in Tunisia, School project I,French II ,English for Culture & Career II,Engineering Ethics,Logical Systems Design,Introduction to Databases,Object Oriented Programming,Optimization,Probability and Statistics and Scientific Computing.
Information about modules of the third semester:Heat transfer, Thermodynamics & Thermal Machines,Microprocessors and Computer Artchitecture ,Computer Networks ,Signals and Systems Theory,Control Theory, Economics of Money and banking (1/2) and Microeconomics II, Quality Management,Accounting and Corporate Finance,Project Management,French III, English for Culture & Career III,Seminars & Presentations II,Communication Skills ,Geopolitical analysis (1/3),International langage (2/3), Intercultural awareness (3/3),Stochastic Processes,Econometrics I and Operational Research I.
Information about the fourth semester EGES:Econometrics II, Macroeconomics II, Economics of Risk and Uncertainty, Game Theory, Data analysis, Big Data and Data Science, Operational Research II, Foreign Exchange Markets and Derivatives, Risk and Compliance in Banking Sector, Advandced Corporate Finance II, Transport and Infrastructure Engineering, Energy and Environment Economics, Environment and Sustainable Development, Renewable Energy, Industrial and Logistics Management, School Project II, Information System, French IV, English for Culture & Career IV and International Study Trip.
Information about the 5 semester EGES:Financial engineering with design, Stress Testing, Computable General Model Equilibrium, Macroeconomic fluctuations and Business Cycle, Lean six sigma, Innovation Economics, Contract Theory and Regulation, Industrial Economics, Financial and Fintech Economics, Equity Valuation and Financial Engineering, Investment, Actuary Science, Financial Machine Learning, Alternative Finance (1/2), Fixed Income (2/2), Parallelism and High Performance Computing, French V, English for Culture & Career V and Multidisciplinary Project.
Information about the fourth semester SysCo: Aerodynamics, Finite elements method II, Structural mechanics, Reinforced concrete, Renewable Energy, Big Data an Data Science, System Identification, Robotics I, Mini Project Robotics, Industrial and Logistics Management,FrenchIV, English for Culture & CareerIV,School projectII,International Study Trip,Geology and geophysics,Product Engineering Design,Advanced industrial management(1/3),Optimal Control (2/3) and Environment and Sustainable Development (3/3).
Information about the 5 semester SysCo:Materials Science I , Materials Science II ,Material Behavior Laws ,Damage and Fatigue ,Dynamics of Structures ,Soil Mechanics ,Plate and Shell Theories ,Manufacturing and rapid prototyping,Renewable energy ,Building Energy ,Power electronics ,Electrical Machines ,Artificial Intelligence ,Introduction to System Engineering ,French V ,English for Culture &Career V ,Multidisciplinary Project ,Parallelism and High Performance Computing ,Numerical Modeling of Complex Systems (1/4) ,Embedded Systems (2/4) ,Advanced robotics and Autonomous Transportation (3/4),Petroleum Industry (4/4).
 Information about the 4 semester SISY: Digital Communication ,Information theory and coding ,Detection and Estimation (1/2),Identification (2/2) ,Optimal Control,Robotics I,Dedicated Processors (1/2) ,Language Therory and Automata(2/2) ,Microelectronics design,Advanced Computer Networks (1/2),Real Time Systems (2/2) ,Data analysis (1/2) ,Transport and Infrastructure Engineering (2/2) ,Big Data and Data science,Operational Research II ,Renewable Energy ,Computer Security and Cryptography,Information systems Information Systems Design -Mini Project ,Project School II ,French IV ,English for Culture &Career IV and International Study Trip.
Information about the 5 semester SISY:Spectral Analysis ,Emerging Telecommunications Networks ,Multimedia Data Processing ,Control for Intelligent Transport ,Nonlinear Systems (1/2) ,Analysis and Control of Large Systems (2/2) ,Electrical Systems ,Robotics ,Applications Based on Embedded Systems ,Embedded Systems ,Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (1/2).
Information about the 6 semester :Graduation Project , Entry level Internship , Engineering Internship , Certification in French (DELF)  and Certification in English (IELTS/TOEIC).
Module related to economie for  1:Principles of Economics ,Microeconomics I and Business Management .
Module related to economie for  2: Macroecononmics I, Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
Module related to economie for  3: Economics of Money and banking (1/2) and Microeconomics II, Quality Management,Accounting and Corporate Finance,Project Management, Econométrie.
Module related to economie for  Eges 4: Econometrics II, Macroeconomics II, Economics of Risk and Uncertainty, Game Theory, Foreign Exchange Markets and Derivatives, Risk and Compliance in Banking Sector, Advandced Corporate Finance II, Transport and Infrastructure Engineering, Energy and Environment Economics, Industrial and Logistics Management.
 Module related to economie for  Eges 5: Financial engineering with design, Stress Testing, Computable General Model Equilibrium, Macroeconomic fluctuations and Business Cycle, Lean six sigma, Innovation Economics, Contract Theory and Regulation, Industrial Economics, Financial and Fintech Economics, Equity Valuation and Financial Engineering, Investment, Actuary Science, Financial Machine Learning, Alternative Finance (1/2), Fixed Income (2/2).
Module related to economie for  Sysco 4: Industrial and Logistics Management, Advanced industrial management(1/3).
Module related to economie for  Sysco 5: none
Module related to economie for  Sisy 4: Transport and Infrastructure Engineering (2/2).
Module related to economie for  Sisy 5 :none
Module related to mech for 1: Continuum Mechanics & Elasticity,Quantum and Statistical Physics.
 Module related to mech for 2: Fluid Mechanics ,Solid State Physics,Finite elements method I.
 Module related to mech for 3: Heat transfer, Thermodynamics & Thermal Machines.
 Module related to mech for Eges 4: Environment and Sustainable Development, Renewable Energy.
 Module related to mech for Eges 5:none 
Module related to mech for Sysco 4: Aerodynamics, Finite elements method II, Structural mechanics, Reinforced concrete, Renewable Energy, Robotics I, Mini Project – Robotics, Geology and geophysics,Product Engineering Design .
Module related to mech for Sysco 5: Materials Science I , Materials Science II ,Material Behavior Laws ,Damage and Fatigue ,Dynamics of Structures ,Soil Mechanics ,Plate and Shell Theories ,Manufacturing and rapid prototyping,Renewable energy ,Building Energy ,Power electronics ,Electrical Machines, Introduction to System Engineering, Numerical Modeling of Complex Systems (1/4), Petroleum Industry (4/4).
Module related to mech for Sisty 4: Renewable Energy .
Module related to mech for Sisy 5 : Micro and nano systems.
Modules related to AM&CS for 1: ,Engineering  Math, Numerical Analysis ,Introduction to Operating Systems, C Prog. and System – Labwork , Data Structures & Algorithms.
 Modules related to AM&CS for 2: Introduction to Databases, Object Oriented Programming, Optimization, Probability and Statistics and Scientific Computing.
Modules related to AM&CS for  3: Computer Networks, Stochastic Processes, Operational Research I.
Modules related to AM&CS for Eges 4: Data analysis, Big Data and Data Science, Operational Research II, Information System.
Modules related to AM&CS for Eges 5: Parallelism and High Performance Computing .
Modules related to AM&CS for Sysco 4: Big Data and Data Science .
Modules related to AM&CS for Sysco 5: none 
Modules related to AM&CS for Sisy 4: Advanced Computer Networks (1/2) ,Data analysis (1/2), Big Data and Data science,Operational Research II, Information systems Information Systems Design -Mini Project 
Modules related to AM&CS for Sisy 5:none
 Module related to elec for 1 : Electronics ,Instrumentation & Metrology.
Module related to elec for 2 : Design,Introduction to Databases.
 Module related to elec for 3: Microprocessors and Computer Artchitecture ,Signals and Systems Theory,Control Theory.
 Module related to elec for Eges 4: none
 Module related to elec for Eges 5: none 
Module related to elec for Sysco 4 : System Identification, Optimal Control (2/3) .
Module related to elec for Sysco 5: Artificial Intelligence, Parallelism and High Performance Computing, Embedded Systems (2/4) ,Advanced robotics and Autonomous Transportation (3/4) .
Module related to elec for Sisy 4: Digital Communication ,Information theory and coding ,Detection and Estimation (1/2),Identification (2/2) ,Optimal Control,Robotics I,Dedicated Processors (1/2) ,Language Therory and Automata(2/2) ,Microelectronics design, Real Time Systems (2/2), Computer Security and Cryptography .
Module related to elec for Sisy 5: Spectral Analysis ,Emerging Telecommunications Networks ,Multimedia Data Processing ,Control for Intelligent Transport ,Nonlinear Systems (1/2) ,Analysis and Control of Large Systems (2/2) ,Electrical Systems ,Robotics II , Applications Based on Embedded Systems ,Embedded Systems ,Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (1/2), Artificial Intelligence (2/2) ,Parallelism and High Performance Computing ,Advanced IT security ,Open Science Seminar ,Smart Manufacturing and Industry4.0 .
Module related to L&C for 1: French I,English for Culture & Career I,Company visits ,Seminars & Presentations I .
Module related to L&C for 2: French II ,English for Culture & Career II , Engineering Ethics .
Module related to L&C for 3: French III, English for Culture & Career III,Seminars & Presentations II,Communication Skills ,Geopolitical analysis (1/3),International langage (2/3), Intercultural awareness (3/3) .
Module related to L&C for Eges 4: French IV, English for Culture & Career IV and International Study Trip.
Module related to L&C for Eges 5: French V, English for Culture & Career V .
Module related to L&C for Sysco 4: FrenchIV, International Study Trip.
 Module related to L&C for Sysco 5: French V ,English for Culture &Career V.
Module related to L&C for Sisy 4 : French IV ,English for Culture &Career IV and International Study Trip.
Module related to L&C for Sisy 5: French V ,English for Culture & Career V.
Module related to DC for 1: none
 Module related to DC for 2: Study trip in Tunisia, School project I.
Module related to DC for 3:none
Module related to DC for Eges 4: School Project II
Module related to DC for Eges 5: Multidisciplinary Project 
Module related to DC for Sysco 4: School project II 
Module related to DC for Sysco 5: Multidisciplinary Project 
Module related to DC for Sisy 4: Project School II 
Module related to DC for Sisy 5: Multidisciplinary Project 
Informations about module Continuum Mechanics & Elasticity:Study :45 h /2 ds(1:30h) and exam (2h) Course outline:ch0: calculate tensor Chapter I: Hypotheses and Descriptions of Continuous Environments Chapter II: Deformation study Chapter III: Constraint in a continuous medium Chapter IV: Thermoelastic behavior of materials Chapter V: Linear thermoelastic equilibrium problem and some exact classical solutions Chapter VI: Simple Stresses on Structures.
 Informations about module Quantum and Statistical Physics: Study: 30h/ ds(1:30h) and exam (2h) Course outline: Chapter 1 Dirac formalism Chapter 2 Schrödinger equation Chapter 3 Quantum harmonic oscillator Chapter 4 Angular momentum and spin.
 Information related to Engineering Math:Study:45h/2 ds(1:30h) and exam (2h)Course outline:espace mesurable /distribution/integrale de fourier.
 information about Numerical Analysis: study :30h lecture and 15h TP/ds (1:30) ,exam(2h) and tp Course outline:Linear numerical analysis :1. Direct methods 2. Iterative methods II.Nonlinear Numerical Analysis: 1. Solving Nonlinear Equations 2. Polynomial Interpolation 3.Numerical Integration 4. Numerical Solving Differential Equations.
Information about Introduction to Operating Systems: Study:15h /exam(2h) Course outline:Ch1:introduction Ch2:SGF(file management system) Ch3:processus Ch4: RAM .
Information about C Prog. and System – Labwork: Study:45h/tp Course outline: basics that you must know to use C langage App useful: codeblocks.
 Information about Data Structures & Algorithms:Study:30h/ds(1:30) and exam (2h) Course line: complexity of programmes/graphe/linked list and double linked list/table sorting .
Information about Electronics:Study:30h lecture and 15h tp / tp, ds(1:30) and exam(2h) Course outline :Ch 1: METHODS OF ANALYSIS OF LINEAR ELECTRIC CIRCUITS Ch2: QUADRIPOLES Ch 3: DIODES Ch 4: BIPOLAR TRANSISTORS Ch 5: JUNCTION FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTOR CH 6: OPERATIONAL AMPLIFIER .
Information about Instrumentation & Metrology:Study:3h lecture and 12h tp/ tp Course outline : Ch1: Metrology TP1: light sensor TP2: temperature sensor TP3: light sensor using the Arduino card TP4: temperature sensor using the Arduino card App useful: Arduino IDE.
 Information about French I: Study :22:30h/ ds(1:30h) and exam (2h)(text + report) Course outline: vocabulaire/grammaire /communication/orthographe related to engeneering field .
Information about English for Culture & Career I:Study :22:30h/ ds(1:30h) and exam (2h)(text + report) Course outline: vocabulaire/grammaire /communication/orthographe about business .
Information about Company visits:Study: 15 h/repport Course outline: visit a company and have a tour in it with a teacher.
Information about Principles of Economics: Study: 15h/ exam(2h) Course outline:LE CIRCUIT ÉCONOMIQUE/taxes/interaction between economique contributers.
 Information about Microeconomics I:Study: 30h/ ds (1:30h) and exam(2h) Course outline: producer / supplier/ PURE AND PERFECT COMPETITION REGIME.
 Information about Business Management:Study: 15h/exam(2h) Course outline: I. The organization and its environment 2. Management: Fundamentals 3. Decision making 4. The management process 5. The main business functions: Marketing, operations, procurement, Finance, HRM, R&D 6. CSR and Ethics.
Information about Seminars & Presentations I:Study:15h/ project Course outline.
Information about Fluid Mechanics:Study:30h lecture and 15 tp/ds(1:30h) , exam (2h) and tp Course outline: hydrostatic, Flows and pressure variation and Bernoulli equation, Control volume analysis – conservation laws, Energy balance, Real fluid mechanics.
Information about Finite elements method I:Study:30h lecture and 15h tp/ tp , ds(1:30h) and exam(2h) Course outlines : Introduction to Numerical Mechanics, reconstruction of the global model-Assembly and Finite Element Techniques.
Information about Macroecononmics I:Study:30h/ ds (1:30h) and exam(2h) Course outline:Classique and keynesiens Macroeconomics.
 Information about Study trip in Tunisia: Study: 1 week/ repport Course outline: Company visite, sight-seeing and exploring new things.
 Information about School project I:Study: 30 h/ project Course outline:Improving your skills, participate in group achievement and exploring how to handle a project schedule.
Information about Logical Systems Design:Study:15h/ exam(2h) Course outline:Ch 1: Number systems and code, Ch 2: Boolean algebra and logic gates, Ch 3: Combinatorial Logic Circuits, Ch 4 Sequential Logic Circuits Bistable Flip-Flops and Chapter 5 Shift Registers & Counters.
Information about Introduction on to Databases:Study:15h/ exam(2h) Course outline: Ch1: Introduction,Ch2: The Entity-Association Model,Ch3: The Relational Model,Ch4: Relational Algebra,Ch5: The SQL language,Ch6: Semi Data Structured and Ch7: Spatial Data.
Information about Object Oriented Programming: Study:30h/project and exam(2h) Course outline:In construction .
Information about Optimization:Study:30h lecture and 15 tp/tp , ds(1:30h) and exam (2h) Course outline : introduction, Optimality conditions, optimization algorithm , numerical optimization method and Penalization methods.
 Information about Probability and Statistics:Study:30h lecture and 15 tp / tp, ds(1:30h) and exam (2h) Course outline:Statistique bivariée, Probabilité et Statistique, en cours



